The greatest reminder for human beings
Ecclesiastes 12:1,6-7,13-14

1 Remember your Creator
in the days of your youth,
before the days of trouble come
    and the years approach when you will say,
    “I find no pleasure in them”—

6 Remember your Creator before the silver cord is [b]loosed,
Or the golden bowl is broken,
Or the pitcher shattered at the fountain,
Or the wheel broken at the well.
7 Then the dust will return to the earth as it was,
And the spirit will return to God who gave it.

13Now all has been heard;
    here is the conclusion of the matter:
Fear God and keep his commandments,
    for this is the duty of all mankind.
14 For God will bring every deed into judgment,
    including every hidden thing,
    whether it is good or evil.

	



















Ecclesiastes 12 consist of many life reminders.
This is his closing admonition.
Also, where the climax of all thing’s concerning life is written.
I can sense how serious the preacher is whenever he mentioned the word ‘Remember’
Not to forget
Not to overlook
Put into our mind
The context is aging, approaching death, and the call to remember the creator acknowledged in your youth. Verses 3 - 6 compare the aging body to a house where the keepers are the hands that become paralytic and shaky; the strong men are legs that begin to bow and no longer hold up the body; the grinders are teeth that have decayed with age, and can no longer chew strong meat; the windows are the eyes that dim and can no longer see well; the doors being shut in the streets are the lips and mouth which can no longer swallow; and the sound of grinding low is the lost teeth, and inability to chew properly; rising up at the sound of a bird is the inability to sleep soundly being disturbed at the least sound; the daughters of music being brought low is the weak and feeble voice of old age.
The silver cord is the nervous system breaking; the golden bowl breaking representing the brain and loss of memory; the pitcher broken at the fountain and the wheel broken at the cistern is the heart slowing and failing to pump; which then results in the death of the body
Man has origin and has destination.
My ability will soon become my disability.
Regrets are certain for people who tends to escape responsibility.

Remember – a call to pause and think about things
your Creator – God as Judge
In the days of your youth/While you are young – Redeeming the time while we still have the ability to use our senses, energy and minds.
Before the days of trouble come – 
Throughout the Bible, various occurrences of the phrase "day of trouble" appear.
Sometimes it refers to the day of judgement
Sometimes it refers to the day for Israel
Sometimes it refers to the time of tribulation
But in the context of Ecclesiastes 12, it refers to the time when people reach the age of too much life restrictions and limit due to old age.











1.	Do things that honor God while you can do it. (it is about service)
Waste not your time for things that doesn’t matter to eternal.
Remember, our life on earth is just temporary.
We only have the average of 40 years to maximize our ability to serve God.
Do not settle for not involving yourself to the ministry of the Lord.
	Find a place where you can honor God with what you can and what you have.
	Not serving God shouldn’t be your comfort zone.
	Let’s make ourselves available to God.


Why the word Remember is powerful?
	There might times where we are focusing on the wrong thing.
	
To remember means we have obligation before God
	What is our obligation?
1.	Our first assignment to God is to ensure how we manage the way we live as believers. 
Do we base our actions to God’s word?
Does people around us see the proof that we’ve changed?
1 Thessalonians 4:1-12
Do we possess the fruit of the Holy Spirit?
Are we living by faith?


2.	Second assignment is serving God through church ministries

1 Peter 4:10-11. Each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others, as faithful stewards of God's grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God.
		Our service should be sincere
		Our service should not vary according to people and places



2.	Choose carefully where we bind ourselves.
Being with someone else that doesn’t love God above all else is dangerous.
Having worldly activities that require most of your time can be risky for your ministry.
Not involving yourself to evangelism is simply abandoning your bond with the Gospel.
	Be careful who and what influence you.
		Influence shape your character.
		Influence dictates your action.
		Influence affects your decisions.

Be careful where you put your pleasure

		




